blob porting guides from v10 to v12 (#5358)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-java: sdk/storage/azure-storage-blob/v10_v12.md

# Storage Blob Service SDK Migration Guide from 10.x to 12.x

In this section, we list main changes you need to be aware of when converting your Storage Blob SDK library from Version 10 to Version 12.
## Prerequisites
Java Development Kit (JDK) with version 8 or above

> ## Update reactive framework from RxJava to Reactor

Reviewer: agreed on linking to the V12 Upgrade Story.md

The biggest payoff here is the switch to Reactor and ReactorNetty. Both Reactor and Reactor-Netty are much more mature than the ReactiveX + custom-ReactiveX-Netty-interface we were using. Both Reactor and ReactorNetty are maintained by Spring and support other large projects, making them safer and more modern, while similar to what was present in v10. For more info, please refer [Reactor Project](https://projectreactor.io/)

## Performance Increase by using ReactorNetty
Perf increases over purely synchronous HTTP Clients (e.g. OkHttp). In our long running stress tests, we have observed 3x better performance using Reactor-Netty over OkHttp when using our sync apis. The async apis perform even better. Stress tests result. (placeholder)

> ## Rename client:

Author: Done.

Class name in V10:

> ```

Author: Done.

ServiceURL
ContainerURL
BlobURL
BlockBlobURL
AppendBlobURL
PageBlobURL
```

> Sync Class name in V12:

Author: Put them in table which more clear to me

```
BlobServiceClient
ContainerClient
BlobClient
BlockBlobClient
AppendBlobClient
PageBlobClient
```

> Async Class name in V12:

Author: Made a table for comparison.

```
BlobServiceAsyncClient
ContainerAsyncClient
BlobAsyncClient
BlockBlobAsyncClient
AppendBlobAsyncClient
PageBlobAsyncClient
```

> ## Provide sis by side sync-over-async APIs

Author: Done.

Each type (Container, Blob, etc.) has both a sync and async client. It is easy and intuitive to use whichever one is preferable in a given context without having to bother about clutter from the other.

> * Example of using Async API in V12. (Suppose the `containerClienthas` been initialized. Please refer the [Build Client](#build-client) section.)

Author: Reword. Done,

```
Mono<Response<BlobProperties>> response = containerClient.getProperties();
```

* Example of usingSync API in V12
```
BlobProperties blobProperties = containerClient.getProperties();
```

> ## Added Maven dependency

Author: Done.

```
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>azure-storage-blob</artifactId>
  <version>12.0.0-preview.2</version>
</dependency>
```
## Credential
There are 3 ways of authenticating the client.
### Connection string 
In V12, we allow to build connection string through the builder.
```
BlockBlobClient client = new BlobClientBuilder()
              .connectionstring("${connectionstring}").buildBlockBlobClient();
```

> ### SAS token

Author: Done.

> You can build the SAS token through the client builder `endpoint`. Adds the sasToken from portal at the end of the endpoint. Refer the [documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/tree/azure-storage-file_12.0.0-preview.3/sdk/storage/azure-storage-blob/README.md) for more info.

Reviewer 2: The meaning of build the SAS token is unclear here, are you building a SAS token or building a client with a SAS token credential?

e.g. 

> ```

Author: The code block (generate sas )is a little long. Feel a little messy to use inline code.

SASTokenCredential credential = SASTokenCredential.fromSASTokenString(sas);
```
## Build Client
In V12, you need to use the client builder to build the clients. Constructor pattern is not available.
Create client in v10:
```
final BlockBlobURL blobURL = new BlockBlobURL(
    new URL("https://" + accountName + ".blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myimage.jpg"), 
        StorageURL.createPipeline(creds, new PipelineOptions())
);
```
Build Sync client in v12:
```
final BlockBlobClient blobClient = new BlobClientBuilder().endpoint("<your-storage-blob-url>")
        .credential("<your-sasToken>")
        .buildBlockBlobClient();
```
Build Async client in v12:
```
final BlockBlobAsyncClient blobAsyncClient = new BlobClientBuilder().endpoint("<your-storage-blob-url>")
        .credential("<your-sasToken>")
        .buildBlockBlobAsyncClient();
``` 
## Sync APIs
For most of async APIs in V10, we will find corresponding sync APIs.
E.g. Async API `getProperties()` in V10:
```
Single<BlobGetPropertiesResponse> response = blobURL.getProperties();
```
Corresponding sync API in V12:
```
BlobProperties blobProperties = containerClient.getProperties();
```

> ## Async APIs

Author: I have put more contents in next commits.

In V12, we have provided single event Async API (`Mono`) and Multiple event Async API (`PageFlux`)
E.g. Single event in V10:

E.g. Multiple events in V10:

E.g. Single event in V12:

E.g. Multiple events in V12:

## Pagination:

> Instead of `Single<ListT>` in V10, V12 provids two Pagination class `PagedIterable<T>` over Sync and `PageFlux<T>` over Async.

Author: Done.

# Storage Blob Service SDK Migration Guide from 10.x/11.x to 12.x

In this section, we list main changes you need to be aware of when converting your Storage Blob SDK library from Version 10 to Version 12.
## Prerequisites
Java Development Kit (JDK) with version 8 or above

## Update reactive framework from RxJava to Reactor and ReactorNetty
For more info related to Reactor project, please refer [Reactor Project](https://projectreactor.io/)

> For more info of the motivation to V12, please refer [V12 Upgrade Storage](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-java/blob/master/V12%20Upgrade%20Story.md)

Reviewer 3: I would be consistent about using either `v12` or `V12` and the same for the 10/11. This uses the capitalised version, whereas the table below uses a lowercase.

## Converting Core Classes

> | Core v10/11 classes  | Equivalent v12 Class | NEW synchronous clients |

Reviewer 3: You can use markdown bold instead of capitalising the letters for "NEW".

Author: The table attribute name has already marked as blob.

## Prerequisites
Java Development Kit (JDK) with version 8 or above

## Update reactive framework from RxJava to Reactor and ReactorNetty
For more info related to Reactor project, please refer [Reactor Project](https://projectreactor.io/)
For more info of the motivation to V12, please refer [V12 Upgrade Storage](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-java/blob/master/V12%20Upgrade%20Story.md)

## Converting Core Classes
| Core v10/11 classes  | Equivalent v12 Class | NEW synchronous clients |
|---|---|---|
| ServiceURL  |  BlobServiceAsyncClient  | BlobServiceClient  |
| ContainerURL |  ContainerAsyncClient | ContainerClient |
| BlobURL    | BlobAsyncClient  |   BlobClient |
| BlockBlobURL  |  BlockBlobAsyncClient  |  BlockBlobClient  |
| AppendBlobURL  |  AppendBlobAsyncClient | AppendBlobClient  |
| PageBlobURL |  PageBlobAsyncClient | PageBlobClient  |

## Updated Maven dependency
Dependency for Blob service:
```xsd
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>azure-storage-blob</artifactId>
  <version>12.0.0-preview.2</version>
</dependency>
```

## Generate SAS token

> You can build the SAS token through the client builder `endpoint`. Adds the sasToken from portal at the end of the endpoint. e.g. `https://${accountName}.blob.core.windows.net/?${sasToken}`

Reviewer 2: It's unclear here what building the SAS token means
Does it mean creating a SAS token or building a new client with a SAS token?

Refer the [documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/tree/azure-storage-file_12.0.0-preview.3/sdk/storage/azure-storage-blob/README.md) for more info.

> Here shows how do we geranerte SAS token programmatically. 

Reviewer 2: Typo: generate

See section [SAS Token](#sastoken) to learn how to use them as credential.

> E.g. In V10/V11, to generate the SAS token, you need the shared key credentials `sharedKeyCredentails`. See section [Shared key credential](#shared-key-credential) for how to get the credentail.

Author: Done.

# Storage Blob Service SDK Migration Guide from 10.x/11.x to 12.x

> In this section, we list main changes you need to be aware of when converting your Storage Blob SDK library from Version 10/Version 11 to Version 12.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this section, we list the main changes you need to be aware of when converting your Storage Blob SDK library from Version 10/Version 11 to Version 12.
```

## Prerequisites
Java Development Kit (JDK) with version 8 or above

## Reactor and ReactorNetty

> We've updated our asynchronous framework from ReactiveX and a custom reactive web stack to Reactor and Reactor-Netty.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've updated our asynchronous framework from RxJava to Reactor.
```

For more info related to Reactor, please refer to [Project Reactor](https://projectreactor.io/)
For more info of the motivation behind this major change, please refer to [this guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-storage-java/blob/master/V12%20Upgrade%20Story.md).

## Converting Core Classes
Our core asynchronous classes have been replaced, as well as new synchronous counterparts added.
| Core v10/11 classes  | Equivalent v12 Class | NEW synchronous clients |
|---|---|---|
| ServiceURL  |  BlobServiceAsyncClient  | BlobServiceClient  |
| ContainerURL |  ContainerAsyncClient | ContainerClient |
| BlobURL    | BlobAsyncClient  |   BlobClient |
| BlockBlobURL  |  BlockBlobAsyncClient  |  BlockBlobClient  |
| AppendBlobURL  |  AppendBlobAsyncClient | AppendBlobClient  |

> | PageBlobURL |  PageBlobAsyncClient | PageBlobClient  |

Reviewer 5: I think we should mention that the TransferManager methods were put on BlobAsyncClient and BlobClient so people know where to look for file transfer operations

## Updated Maven dependency
Dependency for Blob service:

> ```xsd

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```xml
```

<dependency>
  <groupId>com.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>azure-storage-blob</artifactId>

>   <version>12.0.0-preview.2</version>

Reviewer 4: Need to have the latest preview version here. Should also be sure to mention the need to include an HTTP client dependency for netty or okHttp.

</dependency>
```

## Generate SAS token
SAS token generation has moved from helper classes to the core clients themselves.
See section [SAS Token](#sastoken) to learn how to use them as a credential.
Not all fields being set in these samples are necessary.
At minimum, only an expiry time and permission set are necessary to create a SAS.

> In v10/v11, to generate the SAS token, you needed an instance of ServiceSASSignatureValues to fluently build out all it's options. This could them generate SASQueryParameters which contained the actual URL query string to attach to your URL. You also needed to provide container and blob names when necessary, as well as the `SharedKeyCredential` to sign the token with.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In v10/v11, to generate the SAS token, you needed an instance of ServiceSASSignatureValues to fluently build out all it's options. This could then generate SASQueryParameters which contained the actual URL query string to attach to your URL. You also needed to provide container and blob names when necessary, as well as the `SharedKeyCredential` to sign the token with.
```

        .withStartTime(OffsetDateTime.now().minusDays(1))
        .withExpiryTime(OffsetDateTime.now().plusDays(1))
        .withContainerName(containerName)
        .withBlobName(blobName)
IPRange ipR = new IPRange()
        .withIpMin("0.0.0.0")
        .withIpMax("255.255.255.255")
value.withIpRange(ipR)
        .withProtocol(SASProtocol.HTTPS_ONLY)
        .withCacheControl("cache")
        .withContentDisposition("disposition")
        .withContentEncoding("encoding")
        .withContentLanguage("language")
        .withContentType("type")

// build the token
SASQueryParameters sasToken = value.generateSASQueryParameters(sharedKeyCredentails)
```

In v12, SAS tokens are generated off the client to the resource you wish to generate the SAS for.
The resource path handled automatically because of this, and the `SharedKeyCredential` authenticating the client is also used automatically to sign the SAS. See [building a client](#buildclient) for how to get an authenticated client.
```java
// specify token properties
String identifier = "identifier";
BlobSASPermission permissions = new BlobSASPermission()
        .read(true)
        .create(true)
        .delete(true)

>         .write(true);

Reviewer 4: Update code samples to include the `set` / `get`/ etc prefixes.

OffsetDateTime startTime = OffsetDateTime.now().minusDays(1);
OffsetDateTime expiryTime = OffsetDateTime.now().plusDays(1);
IPRange ipRange = new IPRange()
        .ipMin("0.0.0.0")
        .ipMax("255.255.255.255");
SASProtocol sasProtocol = SASProtocol.HTTPS_HTTP;
String cacheControl = "cache";
String contentDisposition = "disposition";
String contentEncoding = "encoding";
String contentLanguage = "language";
String contentType = "type";
String version = Constants.HeaderConstants.TARGET_STORAGE_VERSION;

// build the token

> String sasToken = blobClient.generateSAS(identifier, permissions, expiryTime, startTime, version, sasProtocol,

Reviewer 5: This method was removed for GA. I am keen to add something like this back, but I seem to recall some pushback. Are we ok adding the method back with this signature? Or will this need to change?

            ipRange, cacheControl, contentDisposition, contentEncoding, contentLanguage, contentType);
```

## Build Client
In v10/v11, core classes were built with constructors, taking a `URL` and an already constructed `HttpPipeline`.
```java
final BlockBlobURL blobURL = new BlockBlobURL(
    new URL("https://" + accountName + ".blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myimage.jpg"), 
    StorageURL.createPipeline(myCredential, new PipelineOptions()));
```

In v12, we have moved to a builder pattern. To replicate the above v10/v11 snippit:
```java
final BlockBlobClient blobClient = new BlobClientBuilder()

>     .endpoint("https://" + accountName + ".blob.core.windows.net")

Reviewer 5: I think this would be a more direct comparison if we use the same endpoint with the container name and blob name instead of setting them separately. That way customers don't think they have to separate them out before using the builder.

    .containerName("mycontainer")
    .blobName("myimage.jpg")
    .credential(myCredential)
    .buildBlockBlobClient(); // we can also choose PageBlobClient, AppendBlobClient, and BlobClient
```

> These builders can also build sync and async clients interchangably. Just select the correct "build" method. Additionally, if you already have the full URL, you can just specify that as the endpoint instead of naming container and blob individually, similar to v10/v11.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These builders can also build sync and async clients interchangeably. Just select the correct `build` method. Additionally, if you already have the full URL, you can just specify that as the endpoint instead of naming container and blob individually, similar to v10/v11.
```

```java
 final BlockBlobClient blobClient = new BlobClientBuilder()
    .endpoint("https://" + accountName + ".blob.core.windows.net/mycontainer/myimage.jpg")
    .credential(myCredential)
    .buildBlockBlobAsyncClient(); // we choose the "async" method this time
``` 

## Credentials

### Connection string 
v10/v11 did not support connection strings. In v12, our builders accept connection strings, no calls to `endpoint()` or `credential()` required. However, connection strings generally only point at the account, so you WILL need to specify container and blob names as necessary.
```java
ContainerClient client = new ContainerClientBuilder()

>     .connectionstring("${connectionstring}")

Reviewer 4: This syntax might make a user think that this is a valid string, you might want to be more explicit, e.g. `"<CONNECTION_STRING_HERE>"`

    .containerName("mycontainer")
    .buildBlockBlobClient();
```

### Shared key credential

> Shared key credentials can be used directly to authenticate your client. You need to fetch the `${accountName}` and `${accountKey}` from Azure Portal.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Shared key credentials can be used directly to authenticate your client. You need to fetch the `accountName` and `accountKey` from Azure Portal.
```

Learn More from [README](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/blob/master/sdk/storage/azure-storage-blob/README.md)

In v10/v11, you used the credential to build your pipeline.
```java
// Initialize the credentials
SharedKeyCredentials credential = new SharedKeyCredentials("${accountName}", "${accountKey}");
// How service object take in the credentials.
BlockBlobURL blockBlobURL = new BlockBlobURL(new URL("<your-storage-blob-url>"), StorageURL.createPipeline(credential, new PipelineOptions()));
```

> Since the builder in v12 manages pipeline generation, you can just hand the `SharedKeyCredential` to the builder.

Reviewer 5: I think we should also mention that what was in PipelineOptions is now flattened to just be on the builder. e.g. RequestRetryOptions

```java
// Initialize the credentials
SharedKeyCredential credential = new SharedKeyCredential("${accountName}", "${accountKey}");
// How service object take in the credentials.
BlobServiceClient client = new BlobServiceClientBuilder()
    .endpoint("https://" + accountName + ".blob.core.windows.net")
    .credential(credential)
    .buildBlobServiceClient();
```

> ### SASToken

Reviewer 4: Expand this out to use the full text, with the acronym in brackets after.

A URL with a SAS token looks like the following: `https://${accountName}.blob.core.windows.net/?${sasToken}`.
Refer the [documentation](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-java/tree/azure-storage-file_12.0.0-preview.3/sdk/storage/azure-storage-blob/README.md) for more info.

See section [Generate SAS token](#generate-sas-token) for how to generate the token programatically.

In v10/v11, you had to provide the URL with the token attached, which often resulted in URL manipulation when a token could be used on more than one resource.
```java
// Here is how the blob object take in the sas token generated in above section.
BlobURLParts parts = URLParser.parse(cu.createBlobURL(blobName).toURL())
parts.withSasQueryParameters(sasToken).withScheme("https")
BlockBlobURL bu = new BlockBlobURL(parts.toURL(), StorageURL.createPipeline(
    new AnonymousCredentials(), new PipelineOptions()))
```

In v12, SAS tokens can be managed just like any other credential.
```java
// Initialize the credentials

> SASTokenCredential credential = SASTokenCredential.fromSASTokenString("${sasToken}");

Reviewer 5: This is outdated. There is no longer a SasTokenCredential type. The builder now just has a sasToken(String) method

// How service object take in the credentials.
BlobServiceClient client = new BlobServiceClientBuilder()
    .endpoint("https://${accountName}.blob.core.windows.net")
    .credential(credential)
    .buildBlobServiceClient();
```

However, if you already have the full URL with SAS token attached, you can use that too:
```java
BlobServiceClient client = new BlobServiceClientBuilder()
    .endpoint("https://${accountName}.blob.core.windows.net/?${sasToken}")
    .buildBlobServiceClient();
```

## Provide side by side sync-over-async APIs
Each type (Container, Blob, etc.) has both a sync and async client. It is easy and intuitive to use whichever one is preferable in a given context without having to bother about clutter from the other.

> Suppose the Container Client been initialized as `${containerClient}`. Please refer the [Build Client](#build-client) section.

Reviewer 4: Just a general comment to move away from the `${...}` style, I would say to just use `containerClient`.

* Example of using Async API in V12. 
```java

> Mono<BlobProperties> response = containerClient.getProperties();

Reviewer 5: I think we should make it clear that these are two different types, so line 193 should read "Suppose the ContainerClient has been initialized as `containerClient` and the ContainerAsyncClient has been initialized as `containerAsyncClient` and then update the variable on this line to be containerAsyncClient.

I also think this should maybe get assigned to propertiesMono or something since we have an actual type called Response that is not being used here.

```

* Example of using Sync API in V12
```java
BlobProperties blobProperties = containerClient.getProperties();
```

## Async APIs Comparison
In v10/v11, every RESTful API returned a reactive response of type `Single`

> (see ReactiveX documentation for more details), which emits one and only one result.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
(see RxJava documentation for more details), which emits one and only one result.
```

These returned object representations of the single HTTP response that came back.

Single result API in v10/v11:
```java
serviceURL.getProperties(Context.NONE).subscribe(
    // print the selected service property on success
    response -> System.out.println(response.body().defaultServiceVersion()),
    // handle error
    error -> System.out.println(error.getMessage()));
```

Listing API in v10/v11:
```java
serviceURL.listContainersSegment(null, null, Context.NONE).subscribe(
    // print the list; grab continuation token for making another call to get next list segment
    response -> {
        System.out.println("Page token to fetch more containers:" + response.body().nextMarker());
        response.body().containerItems().stream().forEach(
            containerItem -> System.out.println("Container name: " + containerItem.name()));
    },
    // handle error
    error -> System.out.println(error.getMessage()));
```

> In v12, Reactor provides an equivalent class `Mono` (0-1 response) and provide our own extension of Reactor's `Flux` (0-many responses) for listing operations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In v12, Reactor provides an equivalent class `Mono` (0-1 response). There is also the `Flux` class for zero-to-many responses, although Azure client libraries use a subclass known at `PagedFlux` to also provide pagination and response information.
```

Reviewer 5: I wouldn't use "althought" because that makes it sound like we never return a normal Flux, which we do for downloads.

Additionally, classes returned from APIs are the "core information" of the response, rather than the HTTP response exactly.

> Full access to all fields of the HTTP response is available, but beyond the scope of this document.

Reviewer 5: Can you at least add "... is available by using the methods having the suffix -withResponse, but examples of that usage are beyond the scope...". That way they at least know where to look even if we don't give an example.

 Single result API in v12, similar to v10/v11:
```java
serviceAsyncClient.getProperties().subscribe(
    // print the selected service property on success
    properties -> System.out.println(properties.getDefaultServiceVersion()),
    // handle error
    error -> System.out.println(error.getMessage()),
    // on completion
    () -> System.out.println("Get properties request completed successfully.")
```

In v12, you no longer need to worry about paginated results.
Listing API in v12:
```java
serviceAsyncClient.listContainers()
    // print each item in the list
    .doOnNext(containerItem -> System.out.println(containerItem.getName()))
    // handle error
    .doOnError(error -> System.out.println(error.getMessage()))
    // on completion
    .doFinally(sig -> System.out.println("Paginated listing request completed successfully."))
    .subscribe();
```

> More on paginated requests in [this section](#Pagination)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
More on paginated requests in [this section](#Pagination).
```

## Minimum Overload APIs and Maxmum Overload APIs:

> In v10/v11, we only provide one maximum overload API for each opeation. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In v10/v11, we only provide one maximum overload API for each operation. 
```

```java
public Single<ContainerCreateResponse> create(Metadata metadata, PublicAccessType accessType, Context context)
```

> In v12, we provide one minimum and one maximum for each operation.

Reviewer 4: This isn't strictly true.
